


# ICX6650 Licensing

Brocade licenses are keyed to a specific switch License ID, so they cannot be loaded on multiple switches. Thankfully these ID's are stored in a separate EEPROM and can be easily changed.  

To download and use the legitimate license files linked below on as many switches as you need, you simply need to change your switch license ID to match. Only the license system reads this EEPROM, so changing these values has no effect on the switch whatsoever.   

**DISCLAIMER:** This is intended for educational use only, or in a homelab type environment.  

**WARNING:** DO NOT SHARE THIS LINK, GUIDE, OR FILES WITH ANYONE!  The licenses will be blacklisted and this process will be patched out in firmware - do not ruin it for everyone.  

## Notes
Big thanks to `yukaia` for providing a fully licensed donor chassis to make this happen. This was by far the [most difficult](store/icx6650.jpg) model to create a guide for as all the normal methods were either removed or broken (on purpose?).

## What Does This Do?
On the Brocade ICX6650, the two `POD` licenses in this guide plus the latest OS unlock the following:

- 10gbE functionality on the rest of the 10gbE SFP+ ports (all will be unlocked)
- 40gbE functionality on the rear 40gbE ports
- IPv6 Routing - static/unicast/multicast
- BGP
- OSPF
- PIM (all variations)
- VRRP (all variations)
- Policy Based Routing
- VRFs
- GRE Tunnels
- IPv6-in-IPv4 tunnels - will terminate Hurricane Electric tunnels etc

## Update The Switch
To do this, you need the latest bootloader and OS. Follow this link to upgrade to the latest firmware image AND bootloader - [ICX6650 Update & Start Guide](http://fohdeesha.com/docs/icx6650/)  

**Note:** If this is a new/unconfigured switch, or a used switch with an unknown config on it, follow that update guide all the way through to the `Saving & Conclusions` section! This will get the switch in a state that it can TFTP licenses in.

When upgraded and configured, move on to the below.

## Optional: Delete Existing Licenses

If your switch came with partial licenses already (find out with  `show license`), you can delete them if you'd like following the below:
```
enable
license delete unit 1 all
```
However if you would like to keep the old licenses (in case you want to resell the switch or similar), you do not have to follow the above. Just note that when you change your switch serial and load in the licenses from this guide, the old licenses will show as `invalid`, but they will not affect anything and will go back to `valid` if you ever revert the switch serial and delete my licenses.

Now you can move on to the below.

## Download Licenses

[```ICX6650 Official Licenses```](store/icx6650-lic.zip)  
 ```ZIP Updated: 03-13-2019```  
 


## Change The Serial

We need to change the serial and license ID to match the new licenses. From the normal switch OS:
```
enable
hw pid-prom serial CEK0303H01A
hw pid-prom clear-sw-lid
reload
```
The switch will reboot, and when it comes back up it will have a new license ID and serial.

## Importing The Licenses
Once it's rebooted back into the OS, put the license files from the ZIP above on your TFTP server. If you need an easy and temporary TFTP server for windows, I recommend [Tftpd32 Portable Edition](http://www.tftpd64.com/tftpd32_download.html). Once the licenses are being hosted by TFTP, import them one at a time. Replace the IP's in the commands with the IP of your own TFTP server:

```
enable
copy tftp license 192.168.1.8 1-6650-10gb.xml unit 1
copy tftp license 192.168.1.8 2-6650-40gb.xml unit 1
```
**Note:** You may notice that unlike the other guides, we are not importing an advanced routing license. That is because in codetrain 8030, all advanced routing features are automatically unlocked with the base software, so a license is not needed.

Now make sure they imported properly:
```
show license
```
The ```Status``` column should show ```Active``` for all licenses. If it does, write memory and you're done:
```
write mem
```
## Turning on the rear 40gbE ports
When the licenses are imported, the remaining front 10gbE ports are automatically enabled. However the rear 40gbE ports need to be told to unlock:
```
conf t
fpod-40g-enable group 1
fpod-40g-enable group 2
fpod-40g-enable group 3
write mem
```
That's it!

**Note:** The first 4 rear 40gbE ports are 40gbE only (1/2/1 - 1/2/4)  
**Note:**  The last 2 rear 40gbE ports are 10gbE breakout only (1/3/1 - 1/3/8)

## Reverting

If you want to revert the switch to its original serial and license ID (for instance, if you sell it), that's quite easy. First, get the serial number from your switch. It should be on a sticker on the bottom of the unit. Then just use the commands we used earlier from the regular OS, but now using your actual serial. Make sure the capitalization matches what is on your switch!
```
enable
hw pid-prom serial YourSNhere
hw pid-prom clear-sw-lid
reload
```

Once the switch reboots and has a new serial, you need to delete the licenses you loaded from this guide. Do not skip this! They will be  `invalid`  after changing the serial back.
```
enable 

#if you had no previous licenses from before this guide:
license delete unit 1 all
#you're done

#If you have previous licenses from before this guide you want to keep:
#list the licenses:
show license
#now delete each of my licenses (they should be the ones showing invalid)
#replace X with the number of the license in the list you want to delete:
license delete unit 1 index X
```
It now has the stock license ID and serial, and the licenses have been removed. The output of  `show license`  should be empty (unless you previously had licenses from before this guide, in which case they should now show valid).
