# H710P B0 IT Mode Flashing
Continued instructions for flashing the H710P (Note the P!) Mini Mono (B0 Revision). You should only continue here after following the [Introduction Page](https://fohdeesha.com/docs/perc/). If you haven't done so already, go back.

## Verify & SAS
You should still be in the FreeDOS live boot image. Double check you are on the right guide by running the following command again:
```
info
```
Your output should exactly match the below (Including the trailing P after H710):
```
Product Name : PERC H710P Mini
ChipRevision : B0
grep.exe: Memory exhausted
```
If so, continue on! If not, stop and go back to the [introduction page](https://fohdeesha.com/docs/perc/) and get on the right guide.  

We also need to note the SAS address of the card so we can program it back later. Run the following command:
```
sas
```
Take a screenshot of the console, or otherwise note down the address so you can put it back later. It's not a huge deal if you lose it, but it's easiest to program back the original address instead of generating a new one.

## Cleaning The Card
Still in FreeDOS, run the following command to wipe the flash on the card and get rid of all Dell firmware. This will also flash the required SBR:
```
PB0CROSS
```
Follow the prompts. If it finishes without error, it's time to reboot into Linux. Get the Linux live ISO from the ZIP ready to boot from, then tell FreeDOS to reboot:
```
reboot
```

## Linux Time
You should now be booted into the Linux ISO from the ZIP. Use the following credentials to login: **user/live**  

We highly recommend SSH'ing to the live ISO so you can copy/paste commands and not have to use the iDRAC virtual console. To do so, run the following to find the IP of the install:
```
ipinfo
```
It should spit out an IP. SSH to it, using the same **user/live** credentials. This is not required and you can continue on using the iDRAC (or physical) console, but it will be slightly more inconvenient. 

## Flashing IT Firmware
Now, still in Linux, we need to change to the root user:
```
sudo su - root
```
Now we run the flashing script. Issue the following command to begin the process:
```
B0-H710
```
It should automatically do everything required to flash the card. If you don't get any unexpected errors and it completes, we need to reboot and program the SAS address back to finish. See the following note.

**Note:** For some reason, if power is not reset, the very first boot after crossflashing the card will cause a kernel panic - I believe it's iDRAC not letting go of something. This only happens the first reboot after crossflashing. There's two ways around this. If you don't have physical access to the server, just reboot now as normal back into the live ISO - the first time you'll get a kernel panic, and it will reboot again. Reboot back into the Live ISO, and the second time it will be fine as IDRAC is now aware his son is gone.  
The easier way if you have physical access to the server, just completely remove power (unplug all power to the server and wait 20 seconds). Then plug power back in and boot the server back into Linux.

## Programming SAS Address Back

Now rebooted back into the live Linux image, just run the following command, filling in the example address with your own, that you noted down earlier:
```
setsas 500605b123456777
```
It should succeed without errors. That's it! You can run the following command to get some info about your new card. You should be able to see your SAS address and the same firmware version:
```
info
```

```
replace with b0 info
asd
asd
asd
```

Unless you also need to flash boot images for booting off the card, you can now ditch all the live images and reboot back into your normal system, and enjoy your IT mode card. 

## Optional: Boot Images
If you need to boot from drives connected to this adapter, you'll need to flash a boot image to it. Otherwise, skip it. This is what gives you the "press blahblah to enter the LSI boot configuration utility" text when the server boots. To flash the regular BIOS boot image:
```
flashboot /root/Bootloaders/mptsas2.rom
```
If you want to UEFI boot from drives connected to this adapter, you need to flash the UEFI boot image (the card can have both UEFI and BIOS boot images flashed):
```
flashboot /root/Bootloaders/x64sas2.rom
```
If you're extra special and need to flash the UEFI bootloader that has been signed by Microsoft for MS secureboot, run the following instead:
```
#only do this if you know what it is, and know you need it
flashboot /root/Bootloaders/ms-signed-x64sas2.rom
```
You can now ditch the live images and boot back into your normal system.

## Optional: Reverting
If for some reason you need to revert back to the stock Dell PERC firmware, that's easy. Boot back into the FreeDOS live image, and run the following command:
```
PB0REVRT
```
That's it! When it finishes, just reboot back to your normal system with the `reboot` command.
>Note: This uses the unmodified latest Dell firmware `21.3.5-0002,A09` extracted from the update EXE found [here](https://www.dell.com/support/home/us/en/04/drivers/driversdetails?driverid=wdytk&oscode=ws8r2&productcode=poweredge-r720).