# Setting up Brocade ICX6450

## Preparation
If you haven't already, visit the [Brocade Overview](brocade-overview.md) page to download the latest guide package and get it ready to be served via TFTP - this unified package includes all the latest firmware, licenses, and documentation.  

**Connect** to the serial/console port on the front using a program like Putty (9600 8N1), then connect the **management ethernet port** to your network (do NOT use any of the regular switch ports yet).


Power on the switch while watching your serial terminal - start smashing the `b` key until you're dropped into the bootloader prompt, which looks like `ICX64XX-boot>` . If you missed the prompt and it boots the OS instead, pull power and try again.

At the boot prompt, we need to give it a temporary IP in the subnet of your network, so it can talk to your TFTP server. This IP will not be used again after it leaves the bootloader. Replace the IP in the example below with an unused IP on your subnet. We also need to supply the IP of your TFTP server, and the filenames of the new software:

```
setenv ipaddr 192.168.1.50
setenv netmask 255.255.255.0

#tell the switch the IP of your tftp server:
setenv serverip 192.168.1.8
setenv image_name ICX64xx/ICX64R08030u.bin
setenv uboot ICX64xx/kxz10105.bin
```
Now we can tell it to flash the new OS and bootloader:
```
update_primary
update_uboot
```
After a couple minutes, it should complete. Now we clear the temporary IP, then clear out any old configs and passwords with a factory reset:
```
setenv ipaddr
saveenv
factory set-default
```
To confirm the factory reset action, you must send CAPITAL `Y` - sending a lowercase `y` will just make it abort. Once finished, reset the switch and let it boot fully to continue:
```
reset
```
??? info "If you get "factory set-default is not a valid command""
    If you get an error stating `factory set-default` is not a valid command, this means your switch has a very old bootloader. In that case since we just flashed the latest bootloader already, we just have to tell the switch to reset to load it. Then in the new bootloader the command will work:

    ```
    reset
    #hit b a bunch so it drops into the bootloader again
    #now it's booted the latest bootloader, so the command will work:
    factory set-default
    #you must send CAPITAL Y, not lowercase y
    reset
    ```
    Let the switch boot fully and move to the next section

??? info "If your switch still claims to be a stack member after booting"
    If your switch says that it's part of a stack even after the above factory reset, you'll need to unstack it before being able to configure and update it. You'll see several prompts when booting that it's a stack member. You can unstack your switch by running the following command:
    ```
    enable
    stack unconfigure clean
    # hit y at the prompt
    ```
    You can then continue the guide as normal when it finishes resetting

## Initial Configuration

Now that it's booted into the full OS you may get ***TFTP timed out*** errors in the console, this is normal. just hit enter until they go away. We'll fix that in the next section. Now to make any changes we must enter the enable level:
```
enable
```
Now we enter the configure terminal level to make config changes:
```
configure terminal
```
Now we turn off the DHCP client, so it doesn't automatically grab an IP and look for a TFTP config (the cause of the earlier timeout messages):
```
ip dhcp-client disable
```
Now we give the switch its permanent IP address. By default, all ports are in VLAN 1, so it will behave like a typical switch. First we need to give VLAN 1 its own virtual interface:
```
vlan 1
router-interface ve 1
exit
```
Now we need to assign that virtual interface an address. Choose an IP that is unused in your subnet, and out of your DHCP server range (ping it first to be sure it's unused):
```
interface ve 1
ip address 192.168.1.55/24
exit
write mem
```
Now your switch is set up for basic switching, and has an IP address you can use to manage the switch. But you're not done yet!

> **Note:**  You should now unplug your ethernet connection from the dedicated management port, and instead connect it to any of the  **regular switch ports**. If you skip this, the rest of the guides will not work.


## Update PoE Firmware
If your switch is the PoE model, you need to update the PoE controller firmware. If it's a non-PoE model, skip this section. Assuming you completed the previous section and the switch now has in-band network access (one of the regular ports are connected), just do the following:

**Note:** if you have the small white C12 version of this switch, use the `icx64xxc12_poeplus_02.03.09.fw` file instead.
```
exit
inline power install-firmware stack-unit 1 tftp 192.168.1.8 ICX64xx/icx64xx_poeplus_02.1.0.b004.fw
#after a few seconds, hit enter to return to cli
#save changes you made from the previous section
write memory
#reload the switch
reload
#you'll probably get a message that it hasn't finished. it can take up to 10 minutes
#run "show log" occasionally to monitor the update progress
#try the "reload" command again once it's reached 100%
#once you've rebooted back into the OS:
enable
configure terminal
```
Now you have the latest PoE firmware, and can continue on.

## Further Configuration

You now have a bare minimum setup on your switch, and the latest firmware. To continue with further configuration including securing and naming the switch, setting up SSH and Web UI access, PoE commands etc, please continue to the  [ICX6xxx Series Config Page](icx6xxx-adv.md). Don't forget to return here when you're finished for the licensing info below, if you need it.

## Licensing Info
Like other EoL ICX6xxx series switches, the ICX6450 requires license file unlocks for 10gbE port functionality as well as some advanced software features. These licenses are no longer sold. To prevent e-waste and save these from landfills, I am providing free unlocks for use in a homelab or personal environment. Once you've finished the update and configuration process, proceed to the [ICX6450 Licensing](6450.md) section to fully license and unlock your switch.